Reviewer 1 of CDC15 submission 1615

Comments to the author
======================

The authors propose that quadrotor airspace congestion
might be overcome by platooning, model the operation of a
quadrotor in such an airspace as a hybrid system, and then
study the problem of safely transitioning between modes and
maintaining modes of this hybrid system using
Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) partial differential equation (PDE)
based finite horizon reachability.  The formulation is
general, but the specific models studied are planar double
integrators in absolute and relative coordinates.  The PDE
solutions are used for both "liveness" (to ensure the
system achieves desired states) and "safety" (to ensure
that the system does not achieve unsafe states).  Overall,
the safety controller overrides the liveness controller
when safety is threatened.  Safety is "guaranteed" despite
the finite horizon and pairwise nature of the reachability
analysis by assuming that the quadrotors can exit the
altitude band and thereby achieve complete safety within
the reachability horizon.  Simulations of three toy
examples are presented: merging into a platoon, malfunction
within a platoon, and an intruder impinging on a platoon.

The paper is well organized and clearly written.  The HJ
reachability formulation suffers from the curse of
dimensionality, but the authors successfully work around
this problem as demonstrated by the fact that most of their
examples involve five quadrotors.  The motivating example
appears a little futuristic at present, but platooning is a
more general behaviour and so approaches to ensure its
safety may be useful outside the specific context of
quadrotors.  I recommend acceptance.

However, the authors have made some odd decisions for which
I recommend further justification / correction:

* The HJ formulation gives the non-anticipative strategy
advantage to player 2, who is trying to drive the system
into a target set.  If the target set is unsafe -- the case
for the safety analysis / controller -- this choice
provides the disturbance input any input ordering advantage
and is hence conservative.  But if the target set is
desirable -- the case for the liveness analysis /
controller -- then the controller is playing
non-anticipative strategies.  Why is this a reasonable
modeling assumption?

* Under the HJ PDE formulation, a state is in the reachable
set if and only if it can reach the target set; in other
words, states outside the reachable set cannot achieve the
target set.  However, the controllers in sections IV.A and
IV.B use two phases: one "straight line" control to drive
the system into the reachable set and then the second
derived from the HJ PDE solution within the reachable set. 
According to the HJ formulation, the first phase should
never succeed.	I think the success has to do with the
time-dependent nature of the target state and/or the finite
horizon nature of the reachable set; however, the authors
need to better explain whatever the reason.

* The authors derive detailed liveness controllers based on
HJ reachability for merging into a highway and platoon in
sections IV.A and IV.B, but then turn to MPC for the other
quadrotor maneuvers in section IV.C.  MPC is a much more
common approach to constrained control; why can't it be
used for all the liveness controllers?	Or conversely, why
cannot the HJ reachability techniques be used for the
maneuvers in section IV.C?

* According to section V.A, the safety controller
intervenes when the value function drops below zero.  But
that is too late -- the target set can be achieved from
such states.  Why is this a reasonable condition?

* In section V.B, it is argued that each quadrotor in a
platoon need only maintain safety with respect to the
platoon members immediately in front and behind.  It is
unclear why such ordering is sufficient in all cases (eg:
when the platoon is doing emergency maneuvers to avoid an
intruder, the positional ordering of the members may be
disrupted).

In addition, the authors are apparently approximating the
HJ PDEs numerically.  They give some citations for the PDE
approximation algorithm, but the authors should also
address:

* How are the instantaneous feedback control values at a
given state being synthesized from the presumeably
grid-based approximations?

* The formulation allows measurable controls, which are not
actually implementable (even in simulation -- the closed
loop dynamics generated by bang-bang optimal controls are
no longer guaranteed to be Lipschitz).	How did the authors
approximate the control signals over time?

* Post the code for the examples.

Finally, there are some miscellaneous issues which the
authors should address in any revisions:

* When introducing the quadrotor model (2), mention that x
and y are horizontal variables and all modelling takes
place at fixed altitude (it does become clearer later, but
better to explain earlier).

* Text in figure 1 is a little small.

* Equation (3) (generic system dynamics) is referenced just
before (12) and (15), but I suspect it should be (2)
(quadrotor model).

* Briefly explain why the relative dynamics in (14) / the
safety set in (20) should include the velocity of quadrotor
i but not j.

* The qualitative characterization of the target set just
above (20) implies that it represents only collision
states; however, it also includes states which are unsafe
due to speed limits that have nothing to do with the other
quadrotor.

* There are a few places in the text where minus signs have
disappeared in superscripts and subscripts, such as
footnote 1 and the first paragraph of section V.B.

* The references are full of incorrect capitalizations,
incorrect author lists and missing information, most
notably [6],[9],[17] & [20].

In future work I would also recommend that the authors
demonstrate a nonlinear model; for linear models like those
used here there are much more scalable reachability
algorithms.
